---
layout: post
title: The road to Damascus
permalink: /:title/
reference: Acts 19:1-22
image_credit: The Conversion of Saint Paul, Luca Giordano, 1690, Museum of Fine Arts of Nancy
tags: paul conversion visions
---
God _usually_ chooses the weak and lowly to do his work, but not this time!

## Background

Stephen was one of the first seven deacons - in Acts 7 he is stoned to death,
becoming the first martyr. This guys Saul is there condoning the stoning. Then Saul
heads to Damascus to round up more of these Christians. Saul is a Pharisee (Phil
3:5) - the same group that so often opposed Jesus. He is a student of Rabbi
Gamaliel (Acts 22:3) one of the leading rabbis of the time. This guy was a Jewish
rockstar.

Usually Jesus chooses the weak and lowly - but not here.

## From a human point of view

How did Paul experience his conversion? Check out 2 Cor 5:16 - 17. Saul thought of
Jesus as a person, “from a human point of view” some translations read “according
to the flesh”. Here is a man who claims to be God and got people to follow him -
liar or lunatic - he must be stopped.

But after the vision, Paul changes his mind. Now he regards Christ according to the
spirit, “as a new creation” - that is, from Heaven. And he views everyone else that
way. Figuratively, he can see now, just like we regained sight after being blind
for three days.

## A new creation

Paul says that Christ is “a new creation”. What is conversion except a new
creation? We were something old, worn out, used up, and now in the light of Christ
we become new, better, full of life.

See Rev 21:1-7. John sees a vision of Heaven, and what does Jesus say? “Behold, I
make all things new.” Then he says “It is done!” - where did we hear that before?
On the cross (John 19:30) - these are Jesus’ last words before he dies. What is
done? What is finished? Our salvation, our new creation, our conversion to be what?
To be children of God!

## Jesus is Lord

Let’s read Phil 2:5-11. Paul is clearing saying that Jesus is God. But more than
that, what does it look like for God to become a man? Everyone thought he would be
a powerful leader, slaying enemies and bringing justice. He did that, but by
becoming a servant! Jesus wasn’t hiding God throughout his life, he was revealing
Him!

## What is his response?

Not surprisingly Paul went out and immediately told others about Jesus. He was so
zealous that the Jews of Damascus planned to kill him, so he had to be lowered out
of the city in a basket at night! This is not the last time he would have to do
this.

But why? According to the spirit, everyone is a new creation, something amazing,
wonderful, immortal. Let’s read C.S. Lewis from his talk “The Weight of Glory”
(page 45).

